From the branching perspective. You mentioned regrets. Uh,
do you have regrets about your own trajectory?
Oh yeah, of course. Yeah. Some of it's painful,
but you wanna hear the painful stuff? <laugh>, I'd say like,
in terms of working with people, when people did say stuff, I did like,
especially if it was a bit nefarious,
I took it personally and I also felt it was personal about them,
but a lot of times like humans are, you know, most humans are a mess. Right.
And then they act out and they do stuff. And I, this psychologist, I,
I heard a long time ago said you tend to think somebody does something to you.
Hmm.
But really what they're doing is they're doing what they're doing while they're
in front of you. It's not that much about you. Yeah. Right.
And as I got more interested in, you know,
when I work with people,
I think about them and I probably analyze them and understand them a little bit.
And then when they do stuff, I'm way less surprised. And I, you know,
and if it's bad, I'm way less hurt. And I react way less.
Like I sort of expect everybody's got their. Yeah.
And it's not about.
You as much. It's not about me that much. It's like, you know,
you do something and you think you're embarrassed, but nobody cares. Like,
and somebody's really mad at you. The odds of it being about you,
they're getting mad the way they're doing that because of some pattern they
learned and, you know, and maybe you can help 'em if you care enough about it,
but, or you could step, you could see it coming and step out of the way. Like,
like I wish I was way better at that. I I'm a bit of a hothead.
And you read that, you.
Said with Steve, that was a feature, not a bug. Yeah.
Well, he was using it at, as the counter for, uh,
orderliness that would crush his work. Well, you were doing the same, eh,
maybe I don't think, I, I don't think my, uh, my vision was big enough.
It was more like, I just got off and, and did stuff. <laugh>.
I'm sure that's the, yeah. You're, you're.
Telling, I don't know if it had the, it,
it didn't have the amazing effect that creating the trillion dollar company,
it was more like, I just got off and left and,
or made enemies that he shouldn't have. And, you know, it's, it's hard. Like,
I didn't really understand politics until I worked at apple where, you know,
Steve was a master player of politics and his staff had to be,
or they wouldn't survive him. And it was definitely part of the culture.
And then I've been companies where they say it's political, but it's all,
you know, fun and games compared to apple.
And it's not that that the people at apple are bad people. It's just,
they operate it politically at a, at a higher level. You know, it's not like,
oh, somebody said something bad about somebody, somebody else,
which is most politics. It's, you know, they,
they had strategies about accomplishing their goals sometimes, you know,
over the dead bodies of their enemies. <laugh>, you know, with sophistication.
Yeah.
More game of Thrones and sophistication and like a big time factor rather than
a, you know, well, that requires.
A lot of control over your emotions, I think, uh, to, to,
to have a bigger strategy in the way you behave.
Yeah. And it's, it's,
it's effective in the sense that coordinating thousands of people to do really
hard things where many of the,
the people in there don't understand themselves much less,
how they're participating yeah. Creates all kinds of, you know,
drama and problems that, you know, are solution is political in nature.
Like how do you convince people? How do you leverage 'em?
How do you motivate 'em? How do you get rid of 'em? How do you know? Like,
there's, there's so many layers of that that are interesting.
And even though some, some of it let's say may be tough. Mm-hmm, <affirmative>,
it's not, uh, evil, unless, you know,
you use that skill to evil purposes, which some people obviously do, but,
but it's a skillset that operates, you know, and I wish I'd, you know,
I was interested in it, but I, you know, it was sort of like, I'm an,
I do my thing. And, you know, there's,
there's times when I could have had way bigger impact, if I, you know,
knew how to, if I paid more attention and knew more about that,
about the human layer of the stack. Yeah. That the human political power,
you know, expression layer of the stack, which is complicated.
And there's lots to know about it. I mean,
people are good at it are just amazing. And when they're good at it,
and let's say relatively kind and oriented in a
good direction, you can really feel,
you can get lots of stuff done and coordinate things you never thought possible,
but all people like that also have so in pretty hard edges, cuz you know, it's,
it's a heavy lift and I wish I'd spent more time at that when I was younger.
But, but maybe I wasn't ready. You know, I was a YD kid for 30 years.
It's a little bit of a kid. I know.